
<!-- README.md is generated from README.Rmd. Please edit that file -->
<!-- badges: start -->

[![Launch Rstudio
Binder](http://mybinder.org/badge_logo.svg)](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/jmlondon/berchukHaulout/main?urlpath=rstudio)
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.4638221.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4638221)
<!-- badges: end -->

# berchukHaulout

This repository contains the data and code for our paper: *Haul-out
behavior and aerial survey detectability of seals in the Bering and
Chukchi seas*

## Contents

The **analysis** directory contains:

-   [:file\_folder: paper](/analysis/paper): R Markdown source document
    for manuscript. Includes code to reproduce the figures and tables
    generated by the analysis. It also has a rendered version,
    `paper.docx`, suitable for reading (the code is replaced by figures
    and tables in this file)
-   [:file\_folder: figures](/analysis/figures): figures generated
-   [:file\_folder: scripts](/analysis/scripts): R scripts in support of
    analysis.
-   [:file\_folder: templates](/analysis/templates): template files and
    scripts.

The **data** directory contains

-   [:file\_folder: data](/data): Data used or generated in analysis

## How to run in your broswer or download and run locally

This research compendium has been developed using the statistical
programming language R. To work with the compendium, you will need
installed on your computer the [R
software](https://cloud.r-project.org/) itself and optionally [RStudio
Desktop](https://rstudio.com/products/rstudio/download/).

The simplest way to explore the text, code and data is to click on
[binder](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/jmlondon/berchukHaulout/master?urlpath=rstudio)
to open an instance of RStudio in your browser, which will have the
compendium files ready to work with. Binder uses rocker-project.org
Docker images to ensure a consistent and reproducible computational
environment. These Docker images can also be used locally.

### NOAA README

This repository is a scientific product and is not official
communication of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, or
the United States Department of Commerce. All NOAA GitHub project code
is provided on an ‘as is’ basis and the user assumes responsibility for
its use. Any claims against the Department of Commerce or Department of
Commerce bureaus stemming from the use of this GitHub project will be
governed by all applicable Federal law. Any reference to specific
commercial products, processes, or services by service mark, trademark,
manufacturer, or otherwise, does not constitute or imply their
endorsement, recommendation or favoring by the Department of Commerce.
The Department of Commerce seal and logo, or the seal and logo of a DOC
bureau, shall not be used in any manner to imply endorsement of any
commercial product or activity by DOC or the United States Government.

### NOAA License

Software code created by U.S. Government employees is not subject to
copyright in the United States (17 U.S.C. §105). The United
States/Department of Commerce reserve all rights to seek and obtain
copyright protection in countries other than the United States for
Software authored in its entirety by the Department of Commerce. To this
end, the Department of Commerce hereby grants to Recipient a
royalty-free, nonexclusive license to use, copy, and create derivative
works of the Software outside of the United States.
